Web Technologies Lab 1 Report
Francisco Farias

3. As I inspected de page, I've notice that the elements in it are written in HTML format. I learend that with the developer tools I could see what line of code in the HTML controls the web page, if I put the mouse in the "<body>" it selects the whole page, meanwhile another part of it is the head of the page that contains the home page, news and differents opcions for it. I notice that theres several lines that I did not fully understand but with some investigation I've learned from them. For example, the "<tbody>" tag is used to group the body content in an HTML table and this is how inside the body they separate differents parts of the page like the head of it that I mentioned before. Another tag is the "<tr>", this is for setting a row in an HTML table. As I clicked on a article while inspecting I learned that it is a hidden link with a more frendly title, for example the article "Netflix to cut streaming quality in Europe for 30 days" contains a link for a news of the bbc web site. Finally, the <td> tag defines a standard cell in an HTML table and in this web site they use it for different things like setting the enumeration of the articles and many others. In the end all the things which the user can click on, redirects them to another page and this is all written in HTML.

4. The main difference with the files hs.js and news.css is that they are written in different languages that they interact with eachother. The hs.js file is written in javascript and it contains the functions of the webpage, I'm not completely sure but I think that the function bytag is to get an element form the page by its tag name. The news.css file is written in cascading style sheet and it contains things like the letter style of the page, for example the title uses verdana. Also, things like the colors of the web page. In addition, it contains for images the pixels of them and things like the width. What I understand from my reaserch is that this file is more focused on the syle of the web page.

5. After refreshing the page, in the network tab, I could apreciate that it downloaded 9 files, which 3 are gif, 2 are javascripts, 1 sytle sheet, 1 websocket, 1 document and 1 x-icon. All of them had a request method of GET with a status code of 200, except for the websocket which is also a GET but with a status code off 101. The GET method solicitates a representation of an especific resourse, the GET method is used to recover data. 101 status code its send in response of a headline request for an upgrade by the client and indicates that the server accepts the protocol change proposed by the user. 200 status code is an Ok, it shows that the solicitud had succes, for the GET it means that the resourse has been obtained and it's being transmited in the body of the message.


